---
layout: page
title: Writing
description: ""
---
{% include JB/setup %}

View my publications via:
<a href="http://www.informatik.uni-trier.de/~ley/db/indices/a-tree/b/Bird:Steven.html">DBLP</a>
| <a href="http://scholar.google.com/citations?user=xoyloJAAAAAJ">Google Scholar</a>

<div id="writing">

h2. In preparation / in press

* "How to study a tone language":http://www.toneworkshop.org/tone-book
  Steven Bird and Larry Hyman (editors)

h2. 2014

* "Collecting bilingual audio in remote indigenous villages"
  Steven Bird, Lauren Gawne, Katie Gelbart and Isaac McAlister,
  _Proceedings of the 25th International Conference on Computational Linguistics_, Dublin, Ireland
* "Aikuma: A Mobile App for Collaborative Language Documentation":http://www.aclweb.org/anthology/W14-2201.pdf
  Steven Bird, Florian R. Hanke, Oliver Adams and Haejoong Lee,
  _Workshop on the Use of Computational Methods in the Study of Endangered Languages_, Baltimore, USA

h2. 2013

* "Increasing the quality and quantity of source language data for unsupervised cross-lingual POS tagging":http://www.aclweb.org/anthology/I13-1177
  Long Duong, Paul Cook, Steven Bird and Pavel Pecina,
  _Proceedings of the 6th International Joint Conference on Natural Language Processing_, pp1243-1249, Nagoya, Japan
* "Large-scale text collection for unwritten languages":http://aclweb.org/anthology/I13-1161.pdf‎
  Florian Hanke and Steven Bird,
  _Proceedings of the 6th International Joint Conference on Natural Language Processing_, pp1134-1138, Nagoya, Japan
* "The International Workshop on Language Preservation: An Experiment in Text Collection and Language Technology":http://hdl.handle.net/10125/4593
  Steven Bird, David Chiang, Friedel Frowein, Andrea L. Berez, Mark Eby, Florian Hanke, Ryan Shelby, Ashish Vaswani, and Ada Wan.
  _Language Documentation and Conservation_ 7, 155-167
* "Simpler unsupervised POS tagging with bilingual projections":http://aclweb.org/anthology/P13-2112.pdf
  Long Duong, Paul Cook, Steven Bird and Pavel Pecina,
  _Proceedings of the 51st Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics_, pp634-639, Sofia, Bulgaria.

h2. 2012

* "Machine translation for language preservation":http://www.aclweb.org/anthology/C12-2013.pdf
  Steven Bird and David Chiang,
  _Proceedings of the 24th International Conference on Computational Linguistics_, 125-133, Mumbai, India
* "Fangorn: A system for querying very large treebanks":http://www.aclweb.org/anthology/C/C12/C12-3022.pdf
  Sumukh Ghodke and Steven Bird,
  _Proceedings of the 24th International Conference on Computational Linguistics_, 175-181, Mumbai, India
* "Projeto das Línguas Humanas: Construindo um corpus universal das línguas do mundo":papers/projeto-das-linguas-humanas.pdf
  Steven Abney and Steven Bird,
  In Shepherd, Sardinha and Pinto (eds) _Caminhos da Linguística de Corpus_, Campinas SP: Mercado de Letras, pp 107-131.

h2. 2011

* <a name="lilt11"/> "Bootstrapping the language archive: New prospects for natural language processing in preserving linguistic heritage":http://elanguage.net/journals/index.php/lilt/article/download/2580/2544
  Steven Bird,
  _Linguistic Issues in Language Technology_ 6, 1-16
  * "Normalising audio transcriptions for unwritten languages":http://www.aclweb.org/anthology/I11-1059.pdf
  Adel Foda and Steven Bird,
  _Proceedings of the 5th International Joint Conference on Natural Language Processing_, 527-535, Chiang Mai, Thailand.
* "A breadth-first representation for efficient hypergraph matching in large scale forest-based translation":http://www.aclweb.org/anthology/I11-1088.pdf
  Sumukh Ghodke, Steven Bird, and Rui Zhang
  _Proceedings of the 5th International Joint Conference on Natural Language Processing_, 785-793, Chiang Mai, Thailand.
* <a name="bucc11"/> "Towards a data model for the Universal Corpus":http://www.aclweb.org/anthology/W11-1216.pdf
  Steven Abney and Steven Bird,
  _Proceedings of the 4th Workshop on Building and Using Comparable Corpora_, 120-127, Portland, USA
* "Collective classification of congressional floor-debate transcripts":http://www.aclweb.org/anthology/P/P11/P11-1151.pdf
  Clinton Burfoot, Steven Bird, Timothy Baldwin,
  _Proceedings of the 49th Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics: Human Language Technologies_, 1506-1515, Portland, USA
* Mining language resources from institutional repositories,
  Gary F Simons, Steven Bird, Christopher Hirt, Joshua Hou, Sven Pedersen,
  _Digital Humanities 2011_, Stanford, USA

h2. 2010

* <a name="sst10"/> "The Big Australian Speech Corpus":http://not.yet.available/
  Wagner, Trant, Togneri, Rose, Powers, Bird, et al, _Proceedings of the 13th Australasian International Conference on Speech Science and Technology_, Melbourne, Australia
* <a name="acl10"/> "The Human Language Project: Building a universal corpus of the World's languages":http://www.aclweb.org/anthology/P10-1010.pdf
  Steven Abney and Steven Bird, _Proceedings of the 48th Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics_, 88-97, Uppsala, Sweden
* <a name="icadl10"/> "A scalable method for preserving oral literature from small languages":http://repository.unimelb.edu.au/10187/7141
  Steven Bird, _Proceedings of the 12th International Conference on Asia-Pacific Digital Libraries_, 5-14, Gold Coast, Australia 
* <a name="naacl10"/> "Fast query for large treebanks":http://repository.unimelb.edu.au/10187/7142
  Sumukh Ghodke and Steven Bird, _Human Language Technologies: The 11th Annual Conference of the North American Chapter of the Association for Computational Linguistics_, 267-275, Los Angeles, USA
* <a name="lpath"/> "Querying linguistic trees":http://repository.unimelb.edu.au/10187/3307
  Catherine Lai and Steven Bird, _Journal of Logic, Language and Information_ 19, 53-73

h2. 2009

* <a name="acl09"/> "ACL Anthology Reference Corpus":http://www.ldc.upenn.edu/Catalog/CatalogEntry.jsp?catalogId=LDC2009T29
  Min-Yen Kan and Steven Bird, LDC Text Corpus LDC2009T29, ISBN 1-58563-531-6
* <a name="cl09"/> "Natural Language Processing and Linguistic Fieldwork":http://www.aclweb.org/anthology/J09-3007.pdf
  Steven Bird, _Computational Linguistics_, 35, 469-474
* <a name="nlp09"/> "Natural Language Processing with Python":http://www.nltk.org/book
  Steven Bird, Ewan Klein, and Edward Loper, O'Reilly Media
* <a name="hcsnet09"/> "A blueprint for a comprehensive Australian English auditory-visual speech corpus":http://repository.unimelb.edu.au/10187/6983
  D. Burnham, E. Ambikairajah, J. Arciuli, M. Bennamoun, C.T. Best, S. Bird, A.R. Butcher, S. Cassidy, G. Chetty, F.M. Cox, A. Cutler, R. Dale, J.R. Epps, J. Fletcher, R. Goecke, D. Grayden, J. Hajek, J.C. Ingram, S. Ishihara, N. Kemp, Y. Kinoshita, T. Kuratate, T.W. Lewis, D. Loakes, M. Onslow, D.M. Powers, P. Rose, R. Togneri, D. Tran, M. Wagner,   _Selected Proceedings of the 2008 HCSNet Workshop on Designing the Australian National Corpus_: Mustering Languages, pages 1-12, Cascadilla Press

h2. 2008

* <a name="adcs08"/>"Querying Linguistic Annotations":http://es.csiro.au/adcs2008/proceedings/p11-ghodke.pdf 
  Sumukh Ghodke and Steven Bird, _Proceedings of the Thirteenth Australasian Document Computing Symposium_, Hobart, Australia, pp 69-72
* <a name="paclic08"/> "Toward a global infrastructure for the sustainability of language resources":http://repository.unimelb.edu.au/10187/3531
  Gary Simons and Steven Bird, _Proceedings of the 22nd Pacific Asia Conference on Language, Information and Computation_, Cebu City, Philippines.  pp 87-100
* <a name="nltk08"/> "Multidisciplinary instruction with the Natural Language Toolkit":http://repository.unimelb.edu.au/10187/2230
  Steven Bird, Ewan Klein, Edward Loper, and Jason Baldridge,  _Proceedings of the Third Workshop on Issues in Teaching Computational Linguistics_, Columbus, Ohio, USA. pp 62-70
* <a name="curric08"/> "Defining a core body of knowledge for the introductory computational linguistics curriculum":http://repository.unimelb.edu.au/10187/2231
  Steven Bird, _Proceedings of the Third Workshop on Issues in Teaching Computational Linguistics_, Columbus, Ohio, USA.  pp 27-35
* <a name="lrec08"/> "The ACL Anthology Reference Corpus: A reference dataset for bibliographic research in Computational Linguistics":http://repository.unimelb.edu.au/10187/1777
  Steven Bird, Robert Dale, Bonnie Dorr, Bryan Gibson, Mark Joseph, Min-Yen Kan, Dongwon Lee, Brett Powley, Dragomir Radev, Yee Fan Tan, _Proceedings of the Sixth International Conference on Language Resources and Evaluation_, Marrakech, Morocco.

h2. 2007

* <a name="pacling07"/>"Graphical query for linguistic treebanks":http://repository.unimelb.edu.au/10187/1959
  Steven Bird and Haejoong Lee, _10th Conference of the Pacific Association for Computational Linguistics_.  pp 22-30.  Melbourne, Australia
* <a name="ldc07"/>"Managing Fieldwork Data with Toolbox and the Natural Language Toolkit":http://nflrc.hawaii.edu/ldc/June2007/abstracts.html#robinson
  Stuart Robinson, Greg Aumann, and Steven Bird, _Language Documentation and Conservation_ 1, pp 44-57
* <a name="latech07"/> "Dynamic Path Prediction and Recommendation in a Museum Environment":http://www.aclweb.org/anthology/W07-0907.pdf
  Karl Grieser, Timothy Baldwin, and Steven Bird, _Proceedings of the Workshop on Language Technology for Cultural Heritage Data_, pp 49-56.  Prague, Czech Republic.  Association for Computational Linguistics.

h2. 2006

* <a name="acl06"/>"NLTK: The Natural Language Toolkit":http://www.aclweb.org/anthology/P06-4018.pdf
  Steven Bird, _Proceedings of COLING/ACL_, Sydney, Australia.  Association for Computational Linguistics
* <a name="iticse06"/>"Building a Search Engine to Drive Problem-Based Learning":http://repository.unimelb.edu.au/10187/871
  Steven Bird and James Curran, _11th Annual Conference on Innovation and Technology in Computer Science Education_, Bologna, Italy, pp 153-157
* <a name="ausweb06"/>"Collecting Low-Density Language Materials on the Web":http://ausweb.scu.edu.au/aw06/papers/edited/hughes/index.html
  Timothy Baldwin, Steven Bird and Baden Hughes, _Proceedings of 12th Australasian Web Conference_, Southern Cross University. pp 318-321
* <a name="lrec06"/> "Reconsidering Language Identification for Written Language Resources":http://repository.unimelb.edu.au/10187/291
  Baden Hughes, Timothy Baldwin, Steven Bird, Jeremy Nicholson, and Andrew MacKinlay,  _5th International Conference on Language Resources and Evaluation_, pp 485-488, Genoa, Italy
* <a name="icde06"/> "Designing and Evaluating an XPath Dialect for Linguistic Queries":http://eprints.unimelb.edu.au/archive/00001455/
  Steven Bird, Yi Chen, Susan Davidson, Haejoong Lee, and Yifeng Zheng,  _22nd International Conference on Data Engineering_, pp 52-61, Atlanta, USA

h2. 2005

* <a name="icon05"/> "NLTK-Lite: Efficient Scripting for Natural Language Processing":http://repository.unimelb.edu.au/10187/989
  Steven Bird, _Proceedings of the 4th International Conference on Natural Language Processing_, pp 11-18, Kanpur, India.  New Delhi: Allied Publishers
* <a name="altw05"/>"Structuring Documents Efficiently":http://repository.unimelb.edu.au/10187/2883
  Robert Marshall, Steven Bird and Peter Stuckey, _Proceedings of the Australasian Language Technology Workshop_, pp 120-128, Sydney, Australia
* <a name="planx05"/> "Extending XPath to Support Linguistic Queries":http://repository.unimelb.edu.au/10187/987
  Steven Bird, Yi Chen, Susan Davidson, Haejoong Lee, and Yifeng Zheng, _Proceedings of Programming Language Technologies for XML_, pp 35-46, Long Beach, California.  Association for Computing Machinery
* <a name="jdl05"/>"Transforming Access to the Spoken Word":http://repository.unimelb.edu.au/10187/1049
  Jerry Goldman, Steve Renals, Steven Bird, Franciska de Jong, Marcello Federico, Carl Fleischhauer, Mark Kornbluh, Lori Lamel, Douglas Oard, Claire Stewart and Richard Wright, _International Journal on Digital Libraries_ 5, 287-298

h2. 2004

* <a name="altw04lai"/> "Querying and Updating Treebanks: A Critical Survey and Requirements Analysis":http://repository.unimelb.edu.au/10187/1547
  Catherine Lai and Steven Bird, _Proceedings of the Australasian Language Technology Workshop_, pp 139-146. Sydney, Australia
* <a name="altw04penton"/>"Representing and Rendering Linguistic Paradigms":http://repository.unimelb.edu.au/10187/1546
  David Penton and Steven Bird, _Proceedings of the Australasian Language Technology Workshop_, pp 123-130. Sydney, Australia
* <a name="acl04"/>"NLTK: The Natural Language Toolkit":http://repository.unimelb.edu.au/10187/986
  Steven Bird and Edward Loper, _Proceedings of the ACL_, pp 214-217. Barcelona, Spain
* <a name="emeld04"/> "Towards a General Model for Linguistic Paradigms":http://repository.unimelb.edu.au/10187/1019
  David Penton, Catherine Bow, Steven Bird, and Baden Hughes, _Proceedings of the E-MELD Workshop on Databases and Best Practice_  pp 1-15. Detroit, USA
* <a name="lrec04-talkbank"/> "TalkBank: Building an Open Unified Multimodal Database of Communicative Interaction":http://repository.unimelb.edu.au/10187/1050
  Brian MacWhinney, Steven Bird, Christopher Cieri and Craig Martell, _Proceedings of the 4th International Conference on Language Resources and Evaluation_, pp 525-528. Lisbon, Portugal
* <a name="lrec04-interlinear"/>"Functional Requirements for an Interlinear Text Editor":http://repository.unimelb.edu.au/10187/979
  Baden Hughes, Catherine Bow and Steven Bird, _Proceedings of the 4th International Conference on Language Resources and Evaluation_, pp 771-775. Lisbon, Portugal
* <a name="lrec04-ega"/> "Securing Interpretability: The Case of Ega Language Documentation":http://repository.unimelb.edu.au/10187/981
  Dafydd Gibbon, Catherine Bow, Steven Bird and Baden Hughes, _Proceedings of the 4th International Conference on Language Resources and Evaluation_, pp 1369-1372. Lisbon, Portugal
* <a name="lrec04-acla"/> "Management of Metadata in Linguistic Fieldwork: Experience from the ACLA Project":http://repository.unimelb.edu.au/10187/980
  Baden Hughes, David Penton, Steven Bird, Catherine Bow, Gillian Wigglesworth, Patrick McConvell and Jane Simpson, _Proceedings of the 4th International Conference on Language Resources and Evaluation_, pp 193-196. Lisbon, Portugal
* <a name="llc04"/> "A Four-Level Model for Interlinear Text":http://www.ldc.upenn.edu/sb/home/papers/llc.pdf
  Catherine Bow, Baden Hughes and Steven Bird (DRAFT)
* <a name="mip04"/>"Building an Open Language Archives Community on the DC Foundation":http://www.ldc.upenn.edu/sb/home/papers/mip.pdf
  Steven Bird and Gary Simons, In Hillmann and Westbrooks (editors), _Metadata in Practice: A Work in Progress_, ALA Editions, pp 203-222

h2. 2003

* <a name="alta04">"Encoding and Presenting Interlinear Text Using XML Technologies":http://eprints.unimelb.edu.au/archive/00000455/
  Baden Hughes, Steven Bird and Catherine Bow, _Proceedings Australasian Language Technology Workshop_, pp 105-113, Melbourne, Australia
* <a name="LDC2003L01"/>"Grassfields Bantu Fieldwork: Dschang Lexicon":http://www.ldc.upenn.edu/Catalog/CatalogEntry.jsp?catalogId=LDC2003L01
  Steven Bird, Linguistic Data Consortium, ISBN 1-58563-255-4
* <a name="LDC2003S02"/>"Grassfields Bantu Fieldwork: Dschang Tone Paradigms":http://www.ldc.upenn.edu/Catalog/CatalogEntry.jsp?catalogId=LDC2003S02
  Steven Bird, Linguistic Data Consortium, ISBN 1-58563-254-6
* <a name="0304028"/>"Grid-Enabling Natural Language Engineering By Stealth":http://arxiv.org/abs/cs.DC/0304028
  Baden Hughes and Steven Bird, _Proceedings of the Workshop on The Software Engineering and Architecture of Language Technology Systems_, pp 31-38
  Association for Computational Linguistics.  Edmonton, Canada
* <a name="language03"/>"Seven Dimensions of Portability for Language Documentation and Description":http://www.ldc.upenn.edu/sb/home/papers/0204020/0204020-revised.pdf
  Steven Bird and Gary Simons, _Language_ 79: 557-582
* <a name="0306040"/> "The Open Language Archives Community: An Infrastructure for Distributed Archiving of Language Resources":http://arxiv.org/abs/cs.CL/0306040
  Gary Simons and Steven Bird, _Literary and Linguistic Computing_ 18: 117-128
* <a name="lht03"/>"Building an Open Language Archives Community on the OAI Foundation":http://arxiv.org/abs/cs.CL/0302021
  Gary Simons and Steven Bird, _Library Hi Tech_ 21, 210-218 (Special Issue on Open Archives Initiative Metadata Harvesting.)
* <a name="0308022"/> "Extending Dublin Core Metadata to support the description and discovery of language resources":http://arxiv.org/abs/cs.CL/0308022
  Steven Bird and Gary Simons, _Computing and the Humanities_ 37, 375-388

h2. 2002

* <a name="olac02"/> "Proceedings of the IRCS Workshop on Open Language Archives":http://www.language-archives.org/events/olac02/
  Steven Bird and Gary Simons (eds)  59pp
* <a name="0205028"/> "NLTK: The Natural Language Toolkit":http://www.aclweb.org/anthology/W/W02/W02-0109.pdf
   Edward Loper and Steven Bird, _Proceedings of the ACL Workshop on Effective Tools and Methodologies for Teaching Natural Language Processing and Computational Linguistics_,
  Philadelphia, Association for Computational Linguistics, pp 62-69
* <a name="0204007"/> "An Integrated Framework for Treebanks and Multilayer Annotations":http://arXiv.org/abs/cs/0204007
  Scott Cotton and Steven Bird, _Proceedings of the Third International Conference on Language Resources and Evaluation_, pp 1670-1677.  Las Palmas, Spain
* <a name="0204006"/> "TableTrans, MultiTrans, InterTrans and TreeTrans: Diverse Tools Built on the Annotation Graph Toolkit":http://arXiv.org/abs/cs/0204006
  Steven Bird, Kazuaki Maeda, Xiaoyi Ma, Haejoong Lee, Beth Randall, and Salim Zayat, _Proceedings of the Third International Conference on Language Resources and Evaluation_, pp 364-370.  Las Palmas, Spain
* <a name="0204005"/> "Creating Annotation Tools with the Annotation Graph Toolkit":http://arXiv.org/abs/cs/0204005
  Kazuaki Maeda, Steven Bird, Xiaoyi Ma, and Haejoong Lee, _Proceedings of the Third International Conference on Language Resources and Evaluation_, pp 1914-1921.  Las Palmas, Spain
* <a name="0204004"/>"Models and Tools for Collaborative Annotation":http://arXiv.org/abs/cs/0204004
  Xiaoyi Ma, Haejoong Lee, Steven Bird and Kazuaki Maeda, _Proceedings of the Third International Conference on Language Resources and Evaluation_, pp 2066-2073.  Las Palmas, Spain
* <a name="0204023"/>"Computational Phonology":http://arXiv.org/abs/cs/0204023
  Steven Bird, _Oxford International Encyclopedia of Linguistics_, 2nd Edition
* <a name="cl-handbook"/><a name="0204025"/>"Phonology":http://arXiv.org/abs/cs/0204025
  Steven Bird, In Ruslan Mitkov (ed), _Oxford Handbook of Computational Linguistics_, pp 1-24. Oxford University Press

h2. 2001

* <a name="LDC2001S16"/> "Grassfields Bantu Fieldwork: Ngomba Tone Paradigms":http://www.ldc.upenn.edu/Catalog/CatalogEntry.jsp?catalogId=LDC2001S16
  Steven Bird and John Bell, Linguistic Data Consortium, ISBN 1-58563-216-3
* <a name="0110014"/><a name="nlprs01"/> "The Open Language Archives Community and Asian Language Resources":http://arXiv.org/abs/cs/0110014
  Steven Bird, Gary Simons and Chu-Ren Huang, _Proceedings of the Workshop on Language Resources in Asia, 6th Natural Language Processing Pacific Rim Symposium_, Tokyo, Japan
* <a name="acl01-olac"/><a name="0105030"/>"The OLAC Metadata Set and Controlled Vocabularies":http://arXiv.org/abs/cs/0105030
  Steven Bird and Gary Simons, _Proceedings of the ACL Workshop on Sharing Tools and Resources for Research and Education_, Toulouse, France, pp 7-18
* <a name="acl01-infra"/><a name="0204022"/> "Annotation Graphs and Servers and Multi-Modal Resources: Infrastructure for Interdisciplinary Education, Research and Development":http://arXiv.org/abs/cs/0204022
  Christopher Cieri and Steven Bird, _Proceedings of the ACL Workshop on Sharing Tools and Resources for Research and Education_, Toulouse, France, pp 23-30
* <a name="sact01"/>"Speech Annotation and Corpus Tools - Special Issue of <i>Speech Communication</i>":http://www.ldc.upenn.edu/annotation/specom.html
  Steven Bird and Jonathan Harrington (eds) _Speech Communication_ 33(1,2).
* <a name="specom01"/><a name="0010033"/> "A formal framework for linguistic annotation":http://arXiv.org/abs/cs/0010033
  Steven Bird and Mark Liberman, _Speech Communication_ 33(1,2), pp 23-60
* <a name="identity"/><a name="00001446"/> "Orthography and identity in Cameroon":http://cogprints.org/1446/
  Steven Bird, _Written Language and Literacy_ 4, pp 131-162
  (Revised from paper presented at the 96th Annual Meeting of the American Anthropological Association, Washington, November 1997)


h2. 2000

* <a name="expl02"/>"A Preliminary Study of the Structure of Lexicon Entries":http://www.ldc.upenn.edu/exploration/expl2000/papers/bell/bell.html
  John Bell and Steven Bird, _Proceedings of the Workshop on Web-Based Language Documentation and Description_, Philadelphia
* <a name="expl01"/>"A Formal Framework for Interlinear Text":http://www.ldc.upenn.edu/exploration/expl2000/papers/maeda/maeda.pdf
  Kazuaki Maeda and Steven Bird, _Proceedings of the Workshop on Web-Based Language Documentation and Description_, Philadelphia
* <a name="lrec00-atlas"/><a name="0007022"/>"ATLAS: A flexible and extensible architecture for linguistic annotation":http://arXiv.org/abs/cs/0007022
  Steven Bird, David Day, John Garofolo, John Henderson, Christophe Laprun, Mark Liberman, _Proceedings of the Second International Conference on Language Resources and Evaluation_, Athens, Greece, pp 1699-1706
* <a name="lrec00-query"/><a name="0007023"/> "Towards a query language for annotation graphs":http://arXiv.org/abs/cs/0007023
  Steven Bird, Peter Buneman and Wang-Chiew Tan, _Proceedings of the Second International Conference on Language Resources and Evaluation_,
  Athens, Greece, pp 807-814
* <a name="lrec00-multi"/><a name="0007024"/> "Many uses, many annotations for large speech corpora: Switchboard and TDT as case studies":http://arXiv.org/abs/cs/0007024
  David Graff and Steven Bird, _Proceedings of the Second International Conference on Language Resources and Evaluation_, Athens, Greece, pp 427-433.
* <a name="lrec00-trans"/><a name="lrec00-trans"/> "Transcribing with annotation graphs":http://www.ldc.upenn.edu/home/papers/lrec00-trans.pdf
  Edouard Geoffrois, Claude Barras, Steven Bird and Zhibiao Wu, _Proceedings of the Second International Conference on Language Resources and Evaluation_, Athens, Greece, pp 1517-1521
* <a name="adc00"/><a name="0204026"/> "Querying databases of annotated speech":http://arXiv.org/abs/cs/0204026
  Steve Cassidy and Steven Bird, _Database Technologies: Proceedings of the Eleventh Australasian Database Conference_, pp. 12-20.  IEEE Computer Society

h2. 1990-99 (selected)

* <a name="dtag"/><a name="9907003"/> "Annotation graphs as a framework for multidimensional linguistic data analysis":http://arXiv.org/abs/cs/9907003
  Steven Bird and Mark Liberman, _Towards Standards and Tools for Discourse Tagging_, pp 1-10. Association for Computational Linguistics, 1999
* <a name="nels29"/> "Multidimensional exploration of online linguistic field data":http://www.ldc.upenn.edu/sb/home/papers/nels29.pdf
  Steven Bird, _Proceedings of the 29th Meeting of the North-East Linguistic Society_, pp 33-50, 1999 (<a href="http://www.ldc.upenn.edu/sb/fieldwork/">Web Version</a>)
* <a name="lgsp42"/><a name="00002173"/> "When marking tone reduces fluency: an orthography experiment in Cameroon":http://cogprints.org/2173/
  Steven Bird, _Language and Speech_ 42, 83-115, 1999
* <a name="lgsp42"/><a name="00002174"/> "Strategies for representing tone in African writing systems":http://cogprints.org/2174/
  Steven Bird, _Written Language and Literacy_ 2, 1-44, 1999
* <a name="syllable"/><a name="00002184"/>"Dschang syllable structure":http://cogprints.org/2183/
  Steven Bird, In van der Hulst & Ritter (eds) _The Syllable: Views and Facts_,
  Studies in Generative Grammar, Mouton-De Gruyter, pp 447-476, 1999
* <a name="icslp98"/> "Towards a formal framework for linguistic annotations":http://www.ldc.upenn.edu/sb/home/papers/icslp98.pdf
  Steven Bird and Mark Liberman, _Proceedings of the International Conference on Spoken Language Processing_, Sydney, 1998
* <a name="sigphon97"/><a name="9707011"/> "A lexical database tool for quantitative phonological research":http://xxx.lanl.gov/abs/cmp-lg/9707011 
  Steven Bird, _Proceedings of the Third Meeting of the ACL Special Interest Group in Computational Phonology_, 33-39, Madrid, Spain, 1997
* <a name="dictionary"/>"Petit Dictionnaire Yemba-Francais":http://www.ldc.upenn.edu/sb/home/papers/dictionary.pdf
  Steven Bird and Maurice Tadadjeu, Yaounde: NACALCO, 176pp, 1997
* "Key aspects of declarative phonology":http://www.ldc.upenn.edu/sb/home/papers/declarative-phonology.pdf
  James Scobbie, John Coleman and Steven Bird, In Durand & Laks (eds). _Current Trends in Phonology: Models and Methods_, pp 685-710.
  University of Salford Publications. 1996
* <a name="comp-phon-book"/> "Computational Phonology: A Constraint-Based Approach":http://www.amazon.com/Computational-Phonology-Constraint-Based-Approach-Processing/dp/0521474965
  Steven Bird, Cambridge University Press, 1995
* <a name="bs95"/> "The Bamileke Dschang associative construction: instrumental findings":http://www.ldc.upenn.edu/sb/home/papers/bs95.pdf
  Steven Bird and Oliver Stegen, Research Paper EUCCS/RP-66, Centre for Cognitive Science, University of Edinburgh, 1995
* "Computational Phonology":http://www.aclweb.org/anthology/J/J94/
  Steven Bird (ed) _Computational Linguistics_, 20 (3), 1994
* "Introduction to computational phonology":http://www.ldc.upenn.edu/sb/home/papers/cp-intro.pdf
  Steven Bird, _Computational Linguistics_, 20 (3), 1994
* <a name="sigphon94"/><a name="9410022"/>"Automated tone transcription":http://xxx.lanl.gov/abs/cmp-lg/9410022
  Steven Bird, _Proceedings of the First Meeting of the ACL Special Interest Group in Computational Phonology_, 1-12, Las Cruces, USA, 1994
* <a name="be94"/> "One level phonology: autosegmental representations and rules as finite automata":http://www.aclweb.org/anthology/J94-1003.pdf
  Steven Bird and T. Mark Ellison, _Computational Linguistics_, 20, 55-90, 1994
* <a name="bk94"/>"Phonological analysis in typed feature systems":http://www.aclweb.org/anthology/J94-3010.pdf
  Steven Bird and Ewan Klein, _Computational Linguistics_, 20, 455-91, 1994
* "Declarative phonology":http://www.ldc.upenn.edu/sb/home/papers/bcps92.pdf
  Steven Bird, John Coleman, Janet Pierrehumbert and Jim Scobbie, _Proceedings of the 15th International Conference of Linguists_, Quebec, Canada, 1992
* "A phonologist's workbench":http://www.ldc.upenn.edu/sb/home/papers/be92.pdf
  Steven Bird and T. Mark Ellison, _Proceedings of the 15th International Conference of Linguists_, Quebec, Canada, 1992
* "Finite-state phonology in HPSG":http://www.ldc.upenn.edu/sb/home/papers/coling92.pdf
  Steven Bird, _Proceedings of the Fifteenth International Conference on Computational Linguistics_, 74-80, 1992
* "Feature structures and indices":http://www.jstor.org/pss/4420027
  Steven Bird, _Phonology_ 8, 137-144, 1991
* "Focus and phrasing in Unification Categorial Grammar":http://www.ldc.upenn.edu/sb/home/papers/wp7.pdf
  Steven Bird, in Steven Bird (ed) _Declarative Perspectives in Phonology_, Working Papers in Cognitive Science, Volume 7, University of Edinburgh.  pp. 139-166, 1991
* "A logical approach to Arabic phonology":http://www.ldc.upenn.edu/sb/home/papers/bb91.pdf
  Steven Bird and Patrick Blackburn, _Proceedings of the Fifth Meeting of the European Chapter of the Association for Computational Linguistics_, 89-94, 1991
* "Defaults in underspecification phonology":http://www.ldc.upenn.edu/sb/home/papers/cb91.pdf
  Jonathan Calder and Steven Bird, In Bird (ed), _Declarative Perspectives in Phonology_, Working Papers in Cognitive  Science, Volume 7, University of Edinburgh. pp. 107-125, 1991
* Phonological structure and abstract specification
  Ewan Klein and Steven Bird, _Proceedings of the 12th International Congress of Phonetic Sciences_, Volume 5, pp 110-13, 1991, Aix-en-Provence, France
* Presenting autosegmental phonology
  Steven Bird and D. Robert Ladd, _Journal of Linguistics_, 27, 193-210, 1991
* "Phonological events":http://www.ldc.upenn.edu/sb/home/papers/bk90.pdf
  Steven Bird and Ewan Klein, _Journal of Linguistics_, 26, 33-56, 1990
* Constraint-Based Phonology
  Steven Bird, PhD Thesis, University of Edinburgh, 1990

</div>


